hI i’M jOHN gREEN AND THIS IS cRASH cOURSE
eUROPEAN hISTORY.
lAST TIME, WE LOOKED AT HOW THE MONARCHS DID--AND
DIDN’T--INCORPORATE THE IDEAS OF THE eNLIGHTENMENT
INTO THEIR DOMESTIC POLICIES.
tODAY, WE’LL LOOK OUTWARD TO HOW THE 18TH
CENTURY eUROPEAN POWERS ENGAGED WITH EACH
OTHER AND BEYOND eUROPE--WHICH IS TO SAY THAT
WARFARE IS COMING.
oR, CONTINUING, i SUPPOSE, BECAUSE IT NEVER
REALLY LEFT TOWN.
[iNTRO]
sO, POPULATION WAS RISING IN 18TH CENTURY
eUROPE AND DESPITE AN EXTREMELY UNEVEN DISTRIBUTION
OF WEALTH AND LOTS OF WARTIME CASUALTIES,
MANY PEOPLE WERE LEADING BETTER LIVES.
fOR EXAMPLE, INVENTORIES OF fRENCH PEOPLE’S
POSSESSIONS SHOW THAT IN 1700 WOMEN OWNED
AN AVERAGE OF TWO GARMENTS GENERALLY IN SOLID
BLACK OR BROWN;
IN 1800 THAT NUMBER WAS FIVE GARMENTS OF MORE
VARIED, EVEN BRIGHT COLORS.
nOW, THIS MAY SEEM LIKE MINOR PROGRESS, BUT
HERE’S ANOTHER WAY OF THINKING ABOUT IT: